Add documentation for Truenas Scale Electric Eel (v24.10) (#1228)
jellyfin/jellyfin.org: docs/general/installation/truenas.md

---
uid: installation-truenas
title: TrueNAS SCALE
description: Install on TrueNAS SCALE.
sidebar_position: 4
---

- Jellyfin can be installed on iX-systems' [TrueNAS SCALE](https://www.truenas.com/truenas-scale/).
- This documentation is written for TrueNAS SCALE v24.10.0 (Electric Eel) or higher.
- Consider reviewing the [TrueNAS Apps documentation](https://www.truenas.com/docs/truenasapps/) if you have not previously configured applications on your system.

> 

Reviewer: This shouldn't be a list. Also, should clarify that Truenas Core is different not supported

## Introduction and Preparation

TrueNAS SCALE lets you run apps using Docker.

There are two supported methods of installing Jellyfin on your TrueNAS SCALE server:

1. Custom App
2. Community 3rd Party App provided by ix-systems

Both methods use the official Jellyfin-provided Docker image.

> This documentation will cover both install methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document will cover both install methods.
```

You can configure environment variables at any time after deploying the application.

> It's recommend to set the TrueNAS SCALE App system to a storage pool comprised of SSDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommend to set the TrueNAS SCALE App system to a storage pool comprised of SSDs.
```

---

### Datasets & Jellyfin

The official Jellyfin Docker image internally creates the following necessary directories:

1. cache
2. config
3. config/transcodes

If you use the community app, you can allow SCALE to create datasets for the directories Jellyfin requires automatically during app installation.

> You can also choose to create a static **transcodes** dataset or use temporary storage on the disk or in memory (system RAM) for transcoding.

Reviewer: Please tell users using ram is not a good idea as it can easily run out and cause transcodes to fail. SSD is recommended as using HDD might cause slowdowns

You can also [create your own custom datasets](https://www.truenas.com/docs/scale/scaletutorials/storage/datasets/datasetsscale/) to use in the **Storage Configuration** section as `host paths` during installation.

You can organize datasets as one parent with two child datasets, for example `/mnt/tank/jellyfin/config`, `/mnt/tank/jellyfin/cache`, and so on.

> With Docker, you can organzie these in any way as long as you mount them under the correct name to the Docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Docker, you can organize these in any way as long as you mount them under the correct name to the Docker container.
```

> It's recommended to set Jellyfin's config directory to an accessible dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to set Jellyfin's config directory to an accessible dataset.
```

> This will make it easy to [backup/restore your server](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/administration/backup-and-restore).

Reviewer: use a relative link
```suggestion
This will make it easy to [backup/restore your server](/docs/general/administration/backup-and-restore).
```

> It's also recommended to use datasets located on an SSD Storage Pool for Jellyfin's configuration and cache data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also recommended to use datasets located on an SSD Storage Pool for Jellyfin's configuration and cache data.
```

You can enter a **Published Server URL** for use in UDP autodiscovery, or leave it blank.

If needed, click **Add** to define **Additional Environment Variables**, see [Configuration](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/administration/configuration/) for options.

### User and Group Settings

You can accept the default value of 568 (apps) in **User ID** and **Group ID** or define your own.

![User and Group Settings](/images/docs/install-truenas-11.png)

This user and group is used for running the Jellyfin container only and cannot be used to log in to the Jellyfin web interface.
Create an admin user in the Jellyfin initial setup wizard to access the UI.

### Networking Settings

Select **Host Network** under **Network Configuration** if using [DLNA](/docs/general/networking/dlna/), to bind network configuration to the host network settings.
Otherwise, leave **Host Network** unselected.

![Networking](/images/docs/install-truenas-12.png)

You can accept the default port number in **WebUI Port**, which is **30013**.

You can change this to port **8096**.
Most Jellyfin clients have built-in scanning features that look for port **8096** by default.

> Refer to the TrueNAS [default port list](https://www.truenas.com/docs/references/defaultports/) for a list of assigned port numbers.

Reviewer: the auto discovery ports should also be configured if possible https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/networking/#static-ports

### Storage Settings

Jellyfin requires three app storage datasets for:

1. Jellyfin Config Storage
2. Jellyfin Cache Storage
3. Jellyfin Transcodes Storage

> Solid state storage is recommended for config and cache storage.

Reviewer: transcodes should also use SSD

        <td>SMB Share</td>
        <td>Server</td>
        <td>The server for the SMB share.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>SMB Share</td>
        <td>Share</td>
        <td>The name of the share.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>SMB Share</td>
        <td>Domain (Optional)</td>
        <td>The domain for the SMB share.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>SMB Share</td>
        <td>Username</td>
        <td>The user name used to access the SMB share.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>SMB Share</td>
        <td>Password</td>
        <td>The password for the SMB share user.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>SMB Share</td>
        <td>Size (in Gi)</td>
        <td>The quota size for the share volume. You can edit the size after deploying the application if you need to increase the storage volume capacity for the share.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</details>

### Resource Configuration Settings

![Resource Limits](/images/docs/install-truenas-16.png)

You can customize limits on the CPU and memory allocated to the container Jellyfin will reside in.

- **CPUs** expects a value in **number of threads** to assign as a max CPU thread limit.

>   - The default is **2** which means the container will use 2 CPU threads at most.

Reviewer: 2 is asking for trouble. Should just tell users to set it to number of threads their CPU has

- Also check out [this forum post](https://forum.jellyfin.org/t-new-jellyfin-server-web-release-10-9-6?pid=25895#pid25895) about how Docker image tags can be used.

If you have a container using any of your images, SCALE should notify you of an available update to the image through its GUI provided you used the **latest** tag, or one of the other tags that doesn't point to a single release.

## NVIDIA GPUs on SCALE (v24.10+)

- For users with an NVIDIA GPU, [read the v24.10 Electric Eel release notes regarding your GPU:](https://www.truenas.com/docs/scale/24.10/gettingstarted/scalereleasenotes/#upgrade-notes)
  - `"Starting in 24.10, TrueNAS does not include a default NVIDIA GPU driver and instead provides a simple NVIDIA driver download option in the web interface. This allows for driver updates between TrueNAS release versions."`

>   - `"Users can enable driver installation from the Installed applications screen. Click Configure > Settings and select Install NVIDIA Drivers. This option is only available for users with a compatible NVIDIA GPU and no drivers installed or for users who have previously enabled the setting."`

Reviewer: Please add instructions on how to setup HWA on Intel and AMD on Truenas scale

Author: Do you mean adding instructions for how to do so within the Jellyfin dashboard?

If not, unless it's adding drivers manually to Scale, this is not needed.

For the Scale app launcher GUI, all you need to do to pass the Intel and AMD GPUs to the container is to click on the GPU option on the bottom of the launcher as shown in the document.

I also provided commented YAML lines for the same HWA passthrough.

This specific block is added because Scale no longer packages the NVIDIA GPU drivers and users need to install them separately using some built-in options in Scale.
